---
title: KiBot GitHub action
date: 2024-04-01 03:30:18 +00:00
tags:
  - INTI-CMNB
  - GitHub Actions
draft: false
repo: INTI-CMNB/KiBot
marketplace: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/kibot-github-action
version: v1.6.5
dependentsNumber: "0"
---


Version updated for **INTI-CMNB/KiBot** to version **v1.6.5**.
- This action is used across all versions by **0** repositories.

Go to the [GitHub Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/kibot-github-action) to find the latest changes.

## Release notes

### Changed

- CI/CD: we now filter some warnings that are always generated by docker
  images when we detect a CI/CD environment. They can be enabled using the
  `--warn-ci-cd` command line option. (See #564)
- KiRi: continue even on corrupted schematics (#583)
- Variants: avoid W045 on nameless pads. Assuming they are on purpose and not
  real pads. (See #584)
- BoardView: Skip footprints with no pads (not just REF**)
  (whitequark/kicad-boardview#14)

### Added

- KiCad 8 support
- Panelize: support for all new options (upto 1.5.1)
- 3D/2D renderers: support for ranges in the `show_components` and `highlight`
  options. So one entry can be something like *R10-R20*. Can be disabled
  using the global option `allow_component_ranges`. (See yaqwsx/PcbDraw#159)
- Navigate results: A header and navigation bar (#582)
- BoM: support for SVG format in the logos (#383)

### Fixed

- Netlist generation problems with components on the PCB but not in schematic.
  (#578)
- Filters:
  - _none filter not always honored (i.e. exclude in BoM) (#580)
  - Rotation for bottom JLCPCB parts with offset (#591)
  - Rotation angle used to compute the offsets, must be the final angle
- PCB Parity: components excluded from the board reported anyways (#585)
- BoardView:
  - X axis mirroring issues (whitequark/kicad-boardview#11)
  - Alphanumeric pads sorting (whitequark/kicad-boardview#17) and
    (whitequark/kicad-boardview#18)
- Present: problems when using gerbers already generated
- Diff: problems when using things like "origin/main" and add_link_id (#589)
- Panelize: not able to use external JSON configs (#592)

